FOIL WHAT COULD HAVE BEEN
ANOTHER EUROPEAN TERROR ATTACK
THIS TIME IN BELGIUM.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY,
SURPRISES AND SNUBS FROM THE
2015 OSCAR NOMINATIONS AND WHAT
THEY TELL US ABOUT MOVIE MAKING
IN HOLLYWOOD.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, A MUSICAL
TAKE ON NEW WEALTH AND INFLATION
IN CHINA FROM A STA-UPND
COMEDIAN WHO RAPS THE ECONOMIC
BLUES.
>> I'M PRETTY SURE THAT I'M THE
BEST MACROECONOMIC
CHINESE-ENGLISH BILINGUAL RAPPER
IN THE WORLD.
>> Ifill: AND, REDEFINING THE
AUTOMOBILE.
IN THE CAR OF THE FUTURE,
SOFTWARE TRUMPS HORSEPOWER, AND
PASSENGERS TAKE A BACKSEAT TO
SELF-DRIVING TECHNOLOGY.
>> THE OPERATOR OF THE VEHICLE
IS ACTUALLY NOT DRIVING.
HE'S JUST SUPERVISING WHAT THE
VEHICLE IS DOING, AND HE'S
KEEPING HIS HANDS AND HIS FEET
NEAR ALL OF THE CONTROLS.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: GUNS BLAZED IN EASTERN
BELGIUM THIS EVENING AS TERROR
SUSPECTS SHOT IT OUT WITH POLICE
PUTTING EUROPE BACK ON EDGE.
SECURITY OFFICIALS SAY THEY
RAIDED A CELL OF EXTREMISTS,
WITH LINKS TO SYRIA, WHO WERE
READY TO LAUNCH ATTACKS "ON A
GRAND SCALE".
TWO SUSPECTS WERE KILLED AND ONE
WOUNDED IN THE TOWN OF VERVIERS,
ABOUT 80 MILES FROM BELGIUM.
POLICE SAID THE GUNMEN USED
MILITARY WEAPONS AND OPENED FIRE
AS SPECIAL UNITS CLOSED IN.
THEY SAID THERE WAS, FOR THE
TIME BEING, NO CONNECTION TO
LAST WEEK'S ATTACKS IN PARIS.
>> Woodruff: THE TROUBLE IN
BELGIUM CAME ON A DAY WHEN THE
PRESIDENT OF FRANCE APPEALED FOR
RELIGIOUS TOLERANCE, IN THE WAKE
OF THE TERROR IN PARIS.
AND, SOME OF THE VICTIMS OF THE
ATTACKS WERE LAID TO REST TODAY.
THE CASKET WAS CARRIED OUT TO
APPLAUSE, AND COVERED IN
CARTOONS AND MESSAGES DRAWN BY
"CHARLIE HEBDO" STAFFERS.
HUNDREDS GATHERED AT THE FUNERAL
OF BERNARD VERLHAC, KNOWN AS
"TIGNOUS," ONE OF 12 PEOPLE
GUNNED DOWN AT THE SATIRICAL
WEEKLY LAST WEEK.
>> ( translated ): WE WILL
CONTINUE TO DRAW CARTOONS OF THE
VICTIMS AND WE DREW ON TIGNOUS'
COFFIN.
WE'LL TRY TO CONTINUE TO LAUGH
WITH THEM WHERE THEY ARE NOW.
EARLIER, AT A MEMORIAL SERVICE,
THE WIFE OF TIGNOUS URGED ON THE
CAUSE OF FREE EXPRESSION.
>> ( translated ): THERE IS A
PHRASE WHICH I FIND A BIT SILLY
BUT I'VE SAID IT A LOT-- HE
SHOULD NOT DIE FOR NOTHING.
I THINK IT'S FUNDAMENTAL.
THE CARTOONISTS ARE, TODAY,
MESSENGERS OF HOPE.
>> Woodruff: FUNERALS WERE ALSO
HELD FOR TWO OTHER "CHARLIE
HEBDO" STAFFERS, AND FOR A
POLICEMAN WHO HELPED PROTECT
THEM.
THE KILLINGS WERE CONDEMNED
TODAY BY POPE FRANCIS, TRAVELING
IN ASIA.
BUT HE ALSO CALLED FOR LIMITS ON
FREE EXPRESSION WHEN IT COMES TO
RELIGION.
>> ( translated ): MANY PEOPLE
WHO SPEAK BADLY ABOUT OTHER
RELIGIONS, OR RELIGION, WHO MAKE
FUN OF THEM, MAKE OTHER PEOPLE'S
RELIGIONS A JOKE, WELL, THAT IS
A PROVOCATION.
YOU CANNOT PROVOKE, YOU CANNOT
INSULT OTHER PEOPLE'S FAITHS,
YOU CANNOT MAKE FUN OF FAITH.
>> Woodruff: AND IN PAKISTAN,
FROM PROTESTS IN THE STREET TO A
VOTE IN PARLIAMENT, THERE WAS
WIDESPREAD CONDEMNATION OF
"CHARLIE HEBDO" FOR PUBLISHING
ANOTHER CARTOON OF THE PROPHET
MUHAMMAD.
BACK IN FRANCE, PRESIDENT
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE SOUGHT TO CALM
RELIGIOUS TENSIONS, VOWING TO
PUNISH ANY ACTS AGAINST MUSLIMS
OR JEWS.
>> ( translated ): WE SHOULD
ALSO REMEMBER, AND I DID IT EACH
TIME I MADE A TRIP TO THE ARAB
WORLD, THAT ISLAM IS COMPATIBLE
WITH DEMOCRACY.
WE SHOULD REJECT ALL PREJUDICES
STARTING IN FRANCE.
FRENCH PEOPLE OF MUSLIM FAITH
HAVE THE SAME RIGHTS AND HAVE
THE SAME DUTIES AS ALL CITIZENS.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, THE
FRENCH MILITARY REPORTED
ISLAMIC HACKER GROUPS AND OTHERS
HAVE ATTACKED 19,000 FRENCH
WEBSITES SINCE LAST WEEK'S
ATTACKS.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
FLEW INTO PARIS THIS EVENING.
HE SAID HE WILL CONVEY AMERICAN
SYMPATHIES FOR THE PARIS
VICTIMS, AT A TOWN HALL
TOMORROW.
>> Ifill: IN OTHER NEWS THIS
DAY, TURKEY AND ISRAEL
INTENSIFIED A WAR OF WORDS OVER
THE PARIS ATTACKS.
FIRST, TURKISH PRESIDENT TAYYIP
ERDOGAN CRITICIZED ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU FOR
LINKING THE BLOODSHED TO ISLAM.
THAT PROMPTED THE ISRAELI
FOREIGN MINISTER TO BRAND
ERDOGAN AN ANTI-SEMITIC BULLY.
TODAY CAME A NEW EXCHANGE, THIS
TIME BETWEEN TURKEY'S PRIME
MINISTER AND THE ISRAELI LEADER.
>> ( TRANSLATED ): NETANYAHU AS
THE HEAD OF THE GOVERNMENT THAT
KILLS CHILLING PLAYING ON THE
BEACH WITH A BOMBARDMENT OF GAZA
AND STORMS A HUMANITARIAN AID
VESSEL SAILING IN INTERNATIONAL
WATER, HE COMMITTED A CRIME
AGAINST THE HUMANITY JUST AS THE
MASSACRE IN PARIS WAS
COMMITTEDDED BY TERRORISTS.
>> ( TRANSLATED ): THE SEVERE
WORDS OF TURKISH PRESIDENT
ERDOGAN WERE COMPOUNDED TODAY BY
THE WORDS OF HIS PRIME MINISTER.
UNTIL NOW I HAVE NOT HEARD
CONDEMNATION FROM THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY FROM
THESE UNACCEPTABLE WORDS.
I WANT TO SAY CLEARLY THAT IF
THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY DOES
NOT CONDEMN THOSE WHO SUPPORT
TERROR, THE WAVE OF TERROR THAT
IS SWEEPING THE WORLD WILL ONLY
INCREASE.
>> Ifill: RELATIONS BETWEEN
ISRAEL AND TURKEY HAVE GONE
DOWNHILL SINCE 2010, WHEN TEN
TURKS DIED DURING AN ISRAELI
RAID ON AN AID CONVOY TRYING TO
REACH GAZA.
>> Woodruff: POPE FRANCIS
ARRIVED IN THE PHILIPPINES
TODAY, MARKING THE FIRST PAPAL
VISIT TO ASIA'S LARGEST CATHOLIC
NATION IN 20 YEARS.
HE WAS GREETED IN MANI BY LAA
WIND GUST THAT BLEW OFF HIS CAP,
AND ALSO BY HUNDREDS OF
CHILDREN.
THEY PERFORMED A MASS,
COORDINATED WELCOME DANCE WITH
MULTI-COLORED UMBRELLAS.
LATER, HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
LINED THE STREETS AS THE PAPAL
MOTORCADE TRAVELED TO THE
VATICAN EMBASSY.
SIX MILLION PEOPLE ARE EXPECTED
AT AN OUTDOOR MASS ON SUNDAY.
>> Ifill: THE LONG-STANDING
AMERICAN EMBARGO ON TRADE AND
TRAVEL TO CUBA STARTS TO EASE
TOMORROW.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
FORMALLY ANNOUNCED IT TODAY,
UNDER A DIPLOMATIC REOPENING TO
HAVANA.
U.S. COMPANIES WILL BE ALLOWED
TO EXPORT MORE TECHNOLOGY AND
MAKE LIMITED INVESTMENTS IN
CUBA.
ADDITIONAL TRAVEL WILL BE
PERMITTED, ALTHOUGH GENERAL
TOURISM REMAINS BANNED.
>> Woodruff: FIVE MORE PRISONERS
HAVE BEEN RELEASED FROM U.S.
MILITARY CUSTODY AT GUANTANAMO
BAY, CUBA.
THE FIVE, FROM YEMEN, WERE
CAPTURED IN PAKISTAN, AND HELD
MORE THAN A DOZEN YEARS AS AL-
QAEDA SUSPECTS.
THEY ARE BEING SENT TO ESTONIA
AND OMAN FOR RESETTLEMENT.
122 DETAINEES REMAIN AT
GUANTANAMO.
>> Ifill: A BIG NAME WITNESS
TESTIFIED TODAY IN THE TRIAL OF
A FORMER C.I.A. OFFICER ACCUSED
IN A HIGH-PROFILE LEAK.
FORMER NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER
CONDOLEEZZA RICE TOLD JURORS SHE
WAS STUNNED WHEN "THE NEW YORK
TIMES" REPORTED ON A MISSION TO
DISRUPT IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
THE GOVERNMENT SAYS JEFFREY
STERLING LEAKED THE INFORMATION,
A CHARGE HE DENIES.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
OPENED A NEW PUSH TODAY FOR
GIVING PAID SICK LEAVE TO
PARENTS AND OTHERS.
HE SIGNED A MEMORANDUM DIRECTING
FEDERAL AGENCIES TO PROVIDE UP
TO SIX WEEKS OF SICK LEAVE TO
CARE FOR NEWBORN CHILDREN OR ILL
RELATIVES.
AND, HE FOLLOWED UP LATER, IN
BALTIMORE.
>> THERE ARE 43 MILLION
AMERICANS WHO DON'T GET PAID
SICK LEAVE, WHICH WHEN YOU THINK
ABOUT IT, IS A PRETTY
ASTONISHING STATISTIC.
AND THAT MEANS NO MATTER HOW
SICK THEY ARE, OR HOW SICK A
FAMILY MEMBER IS, THEY MAY FIND
THEMSELVES HAVING TO CHOOSE TO
BE ABLE TO BUY GROCERIES OR PAY
THE RENT OR LOOK AFTER
THEMSELVES OR THEIR CHILDREN.
>> Woodruff: THE PRIDENEST WILL
RAISE THE ISSUE AGAIN IN HIS
STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS, NEXT
TUESDAY.
REPUBLICANS ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT
FRESHMAN SENATOR JONI ERNST OF
IOWA WILL GIVE THE G.O.P.
RESPONSE.
>> Ifill: AND WALL STREET, WEAK
EARNING AT BIG BANKS PUSHED
STOCKS LOWER AGAIN.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 106 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,320; THE NESDAQ FELL 68
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,570; AND
THE S&P 500 SLIPPED 18 TO 1,992.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR.
THE AFTERMATH OF THE COUNTER-
TERRORISM RAIDS IN BELGIUM.
A PROVOCATIVE LOOK AT AMERICA'S
ARMED FORCES AND THE DEBATE IT
HAS SPARKED.
THE LITTLE DIVERSITY AMONG THIS
YEAR'S OSCAR NOMINEES.
AN ECONOMIC RAP ON NEW WEALTH,
INFLATION AND STRUGGLES FOR A
RISING MIDDLE CLASS IN CHINA.
HITCHING A RIDE IN A DRIVER-LESS
CAR.
AND, THE STORIES NOT TRENDING
ONLINE AND WHY THEY ARE
IMPORTANT.
>> Ifill: WE RETURN NOW TO THE
HUNT FOR TERRORISTS IN EUROPE.
TODAY'S RAIDS AGAINST ARMED
MILITANTS IN BELGIUM, HIGHLIGHTS
THE TREND OF EUROPEAN MUSLIMS
TRAVELLING TO SYRIA AND IRAQ TO
FIGHT.
EUROPOL SAYS THAT AS MANY AS
5,000 EUROPEANS HAVE JOINED THE
CONFLICT THERE.
HUNDREDS HAVE RETURNED TO
EUROPE, WHERE AUTHORITIES FEAR
THEY MAY USE THEIR MILITARY
TRAINING TO LAUNCH ATTACKS.
FOR MORE ON THIS, I'M JOINED BY
LORENZO VIDINO OF THE  EUROPEAN
FOUNDATION FOR DEMOCRACY.
HE STUDIES ISLAMISM AND
POLITICAL VIOLENCE IN EUROPE AND
NORTH AMERICA.
SO OFFICIALS SAY THERE IS NO
DIRECT CONNECTION TO THE PARIS
ATTACKS, MR. VIDINO, BUT THEY
SEEM AWFULLY SIMILAR.
>> YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
WHAT WE SEE RIGHT NOW IN BELGIUM
IS TWO DIFFERENT SITUATIONS.
IT WAS ALLEGEDLY THE ARREST OF
THE INDIVIDUAL WHO PROVIDED THE
WEAPONS TO KHUDOBIN, THE MAN WHO
ATTACKED THE SUPERMARKET IN
PARIS, BUT THEY ALSO ALLEGEDLY
THWARTED A PLOT WHICH TRACES ITS
ROUTES TO SYRIA TO CARRY OUT
ATTACKS IN BELGIUM.
SO A VERY TENSE SITUATION MANY
BELGIUM WITH TWO ONGOING
SITUATIONS.
>>.
>> Ifill: IS THE SYRIA
CONNECTION PARTICULARLY
PROBLEMATIC IN EUROPE WHERE THE
BORDERS ARE SO POROUS?
>> OH, ABSOLUTELY.
FIRST OF ALL, THE BORDERS ARE
POROUS WHEN IT COMES TO TURKEY.
IT'S VERY EASY FOR EUROPEANS TO
GO TO TURKEY.
IN MANY CASES YOU CAN TRAVEL TO
TURKEY WITHOUT A PASSPORT AND
IT'S EASY FROM TURKEY THE MAKE
YOUR WAY INTO SYRIA.
AND IT'S EQUALLY EASY TO COME
BACK FROM SYRIA TO TURKEY AND
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES, AND IT'S
VERY EASY TO GO TO ONE COUNTRY
AND ANOTHER.
THERE IS NO BORDER BETWEEN
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES.
ONE TRAVELS LIKE YOU TRAVEL FROM
STATE TO STATE IN THE U.S.
THE PROBLEM IS THE POLICE DO NOT
HAVE THE SAME POWER, SO THERE
ARE BORDERS.
SO FRENCH POLICE CANNOT
INVESTIGATE AND OPERATE IN
BELGIUM OR SPAIN, BUT THE
TERRORISTS MOVE FREELY.
THAT'S A BIG PROBLEM FOR EUROPE.
>> Ifill: YOU'RE IN MILAN
TONIGHT IN ITALY AND YOU WORK IN
BELGIUM.
FROM THE PEOPLE YOU TALK TO ON
THE CONTINENT, IS THERE A
PARTICULAR NERVOUSNESS, TENSION
ABOUT THE POTENTIAL FOR THESE
KINDS OF ATTACKS OR PLOTS TO
SPREAD?
>> YEAH, OBVIOUSLY YOU DO SEE A
LARGER PRESENCE OF POLICE IN
MANY POTENTIAL TARGETS.
I DON'T THINK THERE'S PANIC IN
TERMS OF POPULATION, BUT
OBVIOUSLY THAT'S WHAT PEOPLE
TALK ABOUT.
IT'S IN THE MEDIA.
AND YOU DO SEE SOME TENSIONS IN
SOCIETY.
SO OBVIOUSLY THESE ARE TENSE
TIMES.
THERE'S NOTHING NEW IN EUROPEAN
HISTORY.
WE HAVE DEALT WITH ISLAMIST
TERRORISM FOR THE LAST 15 YEARS.
WE'VE HAD OTHER FORMS OF
TERRORISM, RIGHT WING, LEFT
WING, NATIONALIST IN THE PAST,
SO IT'S REALLY NOTHING NEW.
AT THE SAME TIME OBVIOUSLY THERE
ARE SOME TENSION, AND IT'S A NEW
FORM OF TERRORISM WHICH IS IN
SOME WAY PARTICULARLY INSIDIOUS.
SO IT'S PROBLEMATIC INDEED.
>> Ifill: IN BRUSSELS LATELY
AND IN BELGIUM IN GENERAL, THERE
HAVE BEEN... THERE'S A HISTORY
OF ATTACKS RECENTLY.
>> THERE WAS INDEED ANOTHER
ATTACK BACK IN MAY WHERE ANOTHER
FRENCH INDIVIDUAL WHO WAS
RADICALIZED IN PRISON, TRAVELED
TO SYRIA, FOUGHT FOR ONE YEAR IN
SYRIA AND THEN CAME BACK TO
EUROPE, MANAGED TO GET AN AK-47
AND WENT TO A JEWISH MUSEUM IN
BRUSSELS AND KILLED FOUR PEOPLE.
HE WAS THEN SUBSEQUENTLY
ARRESTED.
A LOT OF THE DYNAMICS THAT WE'VE
SEEN NOW WITH FRANCE AND BELGIUM
WERE ALREADY VISIBLE BACK THEN.
WE DO SEE THESE SORT OF DYNAMICS
THROUGHOUT EUROPE WHERE THERE
HAVE BEEN SEVERAL PLOTS THWARTED
IN MANY COUNTRIES FROM U.K. TO
EVEN PEACEFUL SWITZERLAND AND
SWEDEN.
IT IS A PROBLEM.
THE NUMBERS YOU MENTIONED ARE
PARTICULARLY PROBLEMATIC, UP TO
5,000 INDIVIDUALS.
TH'S AAT HUGE NUMBER THAT
CREATES A LOT OF PROBLEMS TO
MONITOR THEM.
THERE'S A WILL BE OF MANPOWER
AND OBVIOUSLY THERE ARE LEGAL
PROBLEMS IN MONITORING ALL THESE
PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: IS THERE A
DISTINCTION BETWEEN ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANTS AND AL QAEDA
MILITANTS IN TERMS OF TRYING TO
TRACE THE SOURCE OF ALL OF THIS
ACTIVISM AND TERRORISM?
>> I THINK THERE'S OBVIOUSLY AN
IMPORTANCE.
WE KNOW THE TWO GROUPS ARE AT
ODDS.
THEY ARE ACTUALLY IN COMPETITION
AT SOME LEVEL, AND AT THE
LEADERSHIP LEVEL, THERE IS A BIT
OF A RIVALRY BETWEEN THE TWO.
IN A WAY THE ARGUMENT IS ONE IS
TRYING TO OUTDO THE OTHER BY
CARRYING OUT SPECTACULAR AND
SYMBOLIC ATTACKS.
I THINK AT THE GRASSROOTS LEVEL
WHEN IT COMES TO ASPIRING
TERRORISTS, ASPIRING JIHADISTS,
FOR THEM THOSE DISTINCTIONS
DON'T REALLY MAKE MUCH SENSE.
PEOPLE WHO WANT TO SORT OF GET
INVOLVED AND EMBRACE THIS
IDEOLOGY AND WANT TO MOBILIZE,
TO THEM AL QAEDA, THE ISLAMIC
STATE MAKE LITTLE SENSE.
IT'S A DISTINCTION THAT DOESN'T
MATTER.
THEY WANT TO DO SOMETHING,
WHETHER IT'S IN SYRIA OR HERE IN
NEW YORK.
WHATEVER HAPPENS TO AL QAEDA AND
OR IF IT'S THE ISLAMIC STATE, IT
MATTERS VERY LITTLE TO THEM.
>> Ifill: LORENZO VIDINO OF
THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR
DEMOCRACY, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO A CRITIQUE
OF AMERICA'S WAR-FIGHTING
APPARATUS THAT'S MAKING WAVES IN
DEFENSE CIRCLES AND BEYOND.
JOURNALIST AND AUTHOR JAMES
FALLOWS RAISES HARD QUESTIONS
ABOUT THIS COUNTRY'S DEFENSE
ESTABLISHMENT IN A COVER STORY
THE ATLANTIC MAGAZINE TITLED,
"WHY DO THE BEST SOLDIERS IN THE
WOD KERLEP LOSING?
THE TRAGIC DECLINE OF THE
AMERICAN MILITARY."
FALLOWS' THESIS: THAT IT'S TIME
TO EXAMINE WHY THE BEST FUNDED,
TRAINED AND MOST PROFESSIONAL
MILITARY IN THE WORLD HASN'T
ACHIEVED LASTING VICTORIES OVER
INSURGENT FORCES IN THE POST-
9/11 ERA.
WE WILL HAVE MORE ON THE
REACTION TO HIS PIECE, BUT
FIRST, WE HEAR FROM FALLOWS
HIMSELF.
HE SPOKE A FEW DAYS AGO WITH
MARGARET WARNER.
>> Warner: JILL FALLOWS, THANK
YOU FOR HAVING US.
>> THANK YOU, MARGARET.
>> Warner: YOU CONTEND AFTER
13 YEARS OF WAR IN IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN, IN WHICH WE
OVERTHROUGH SAMARIA -- SADDAM
HUSSEIN AND THE TALIBAN AND
DROVE MOST OF AL QAEDA
UNDERGROUND, THAT WE ESSENTIALLY
LOST THOSE WARS?
>> IF YOU LOOK STRICTLY FROM A
MILITARY POINT OF VIEW, THE ONE
CLEAR VICTORY THE UNITED STATES
HAD WAS KILLING OSAMA BIN LADEN,
BUT BY HAVING THIS LAST 12 OR 13
YEARS OF OPEN-ENDED WAR IN IRAQ
AND THE SURROUNDING COUNTRIES, I
ARGUE THAT FROM ALMOST ANY
PERSPECTIVE, THAT IS USE OF
MONEY, LOSS OF LIFE, TAKING OF
LIFE, STRATEGIC CHANGES IN
AMERICA'S IMAGE AND REPUTATION
AROUND THE WORLD, EROSION OF
AMERICAN VALUES, THIS HAS BEEN
AN ERA OF DEFEAT RATHER THAN
VICTORY.
>> Warner: BUT CRITICS LIKE
FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO IRAQ
JIM JEFFRIES ARGUES THAT WINNING
A WAR IS FORCING THE OTHER SIDE
TO CEASE OPERATIONS AND
BASICALLY GAINING CONTROL OF
TERRITORY, THAT THE UNITED
STATES HAS WON MOST OF THESE
ENGAGEMENTS.
>> THERE'S ANOTHER CLASSIC
MILITARY STATEMENT, "WINNING
BATTLES, LOSING WARS."
A NORTH KOREAN SAID SAID KOUACHI
IT'S IRRELEVANT WHEN AN AMERICAN
SAID YOU'RE NEVER BEAT US ON THE
BATTLEFIELD.
ENGAGEMENT BY ENGAGEMENT, U.S.
TROOPS ARE NOTHING LESS THAN
COMPETENT, BRAVE, HEROIC,
ENDURING LOSSES AND ALL THE
REST, BUT AS A STRATEGIC
QUESTION OF HOW WE APPLY OUR
WILL AROUND THE WORLD AND THIS
MILITARY THAT'S SO MUCH LARGER
THAN ANYBODY ELSE'S AROUND THE
WORLD, I ARGUE THAT IT'S BEEN
INENECKIVE AND OFTEN COUNTER
PRODUCTIVE.
>> Warner: YOU APPORTION A LOT
OF BLAME, MILITARY LEADERSHIP,
SOME POLITICAL, BUT YOU ALSO SAY
IT'S ROOTED IN SOMETHING THAT'S
HAPPENED TO THE AMERICAN PUBLIC
AND CULTURE AND YOU SUM IT UP
WITH THIS PHRASE "CHICKEN HAWK
NATION."
>> I USE THAT WORD KNOWING IT
WILL BE PROVOCATIVE.
THIS WAS A TERM POPULAR WHEN THE
IRAQ WAR WAS BEING DEBATED.
PEOPLE WERE EGORE TO GO TO WAR
AS LONG AS SOMEONE ELSE WAS
GOING.
I ARGUE THAT IF WHEN HISTORIANS
LOOK AT THIS ERA OF OUR AMERICA,
THEY'LL SAY SOMETHING SIMILAR
WAS TRUE OF THE COUNTRY AS A
WHOLE.
WE ARE ALWAYS AT WAR.
WE SPEND TWICE AS LARGE A SHARE
OF OUR GDP ON THE MILITARY AS
THE WORLD DOES IN GENERAL, THE
LONGEST SUSTAINED PERIOD OF
OPEN-ENDED COMBAT IN OUR
NATION'S HISTORY, AND YET THE
COUNTRY AS A WHOLE IS BARELY
AFFECTED.
WE HAVE HALF-TIME CEREMONIES
HONORING THE HEROES.
WE LET THEM GET ON THE
COMMERCIAL AIRLINES EARLIER, BUT
WE DON'T THINK SERIOUSLY ABOUT
WHAT THEY'RE DOING, THE MISSIONS
WE'RE ASKING THEM TO UNDERTAKE,
AS A RESULT, FROM MY VIEW, WE'VE
EMBARKED ON A SERIES OF
UNWINNABLE WARS.
WE CALL PEOPLE HEROES AND SEND
THEM TO DO THINGS THEY CAN'T DO.
>> Warner: SO YOU SAY THIS
ADULATION ALMOST THAT THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC FEELS FOR THE
MILITARY IS DANGEROUS.
>> I THINK THAT IT'S UNNATURAL
IN ADDITION TO BEING DANGEROUS.
WHEN I WAS A KID IN THE '50s
AND '60ED AND OLDER IN THE
'70s, AMERICAN POP CULTURE WAS
FAMILIAR ENOUGH WITH ITS
MILITARY TO MAKE FUN OF IT AT
TIMES.
YOU HAD SHOWS LIKE "GOMER PYLE,"
"HOGANS HEROES," WORSE OF ART
LIKE "SOUTH PACIFIC" AND MOVIES
LIKE "M *A +S *H" RESPECTED THE
IMPORTANCE OF THE MILITARY, BUT
IT WAS STILL MADE OF REAL PEOPLE
WITH A REAL FOIBLE.
WE ARE STARTING TO HAVE THIS
ARTIFICIALLY REVERENT VIEW OF
THE MILITARY THAT'S ALSO DISTANT
AND DISENGAGED.
>>
AND ROOTED IN
THE FACT THAT RIGHT NOW IF YOU
TAKE ALL THE PEOPLE WHO SERVED
IN IRAQ OR AFGHANISTAN AT ANY
POINT IN THE LAST 13 YEARS, THEY
ARE THREE-QUARTERS OF 1% OF THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC.
AND SO IT'S A COUNTRY AT WAR,
BUT ABL'S NOT AT WAR.
I THINK THAT'S JUST DISTORTING
IN THE LONG RUN.
>> Warner: GOING INTO IRAQ,
THAT WAS NOT BEING DRIVEN BY THE
PENTAGON, WAS IT?
PRESIDENT BUSH, VICE PRESIDENT
CHENEY, SECRETARY RUMSFELD.
>> THE PENTAGON HAS GENERALLY
BEEN AN ANTI-WAR FORCE IN
COUNCILS OF DELIBERATION OVER
THE LAST GENERATION PLUS, BUT
BEFORE THE IRAQ WAR MOST OF THE
PEOPLE I INTERVIEWED INSIDE THE
PENTAGON THOUGHT THIS WOULD BE A
BIG MESS BECAUSE PROPER PLANNING
WAS NOT BEING DONE.
SO I'M NOT SAYING AT ALL THAT
THE MILITARY IS DRIVING THIS
OPEN-ENDED EXTENSION.
>> Warner: THE PENTAGON SAYS
WE'RE HERE TO PRESENT THE
OPTIONS TO CARRY OUT WHATEVER
POLICY THE PRESIDENT DECIDES HE
WANTS TO PURSUE.
CAN THE PUBLIC REALLY EVEN BE
PLAYER IN THAT?
>> THE ISSUES OF MILITARY
ACCOUNTABILITY, I THINK THERE
SHOULD BE MORE ACCOUNTABILITY
FOR COMMANDERS AND TACTICS AND
STRATEGIES THAT WORKED WELL AND
POORLY IN THE LAST DOZEN YEARS.
IT'S ALSO TRUE THAT OUR ELECTED
CIVILIAN LEADERSHIP, BOTH
PRESIDENTS GEORGE W. BUSH AND
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAVE ENJOYED THE
CONVENIENCE OF BEING ABLE TO DO
A LOT OF THIS BY EXECUTIVE ORDER
AND HAVING THE PUBLIC AND THE
CONGRESS NOT INVOLVED, BUT THE
PUBLIC IS OPENLY RESPONSIBLE.
SO I'M TRYING TO STICK A PROD IN
THE PUBLIC AND SAY, THIS MATTERS
MORE THAN OUR PUBLIC DEPORT.
, WHICH SUGGESTS IT MATTERS.
>> Warner: SO WHAT IS THE FIX?
>> I THOUGHT IT WAS INTERESTING
THAT ADMIRAL MULLIN SAYS THE
JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF SAYS IT'S
TOO EASY TO GO TO WAR.
HE WOULD LIKE MORE TRIP WIRES
THAT MAKE THE PUBLIC CONSCIOUS.
>> Warner: IS HE TALKING ABOUT
A RETURN TO THE DRAFT?
ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT THAT?
>> I THINK ADMIRAL MULLIN KNOWS
AS I DO AND ALMOST EVERYBODY
DOES, REALISTICALLY A RETURN OF
THE DRAFT WILL NOT HAPPEN.
WHAT ADMIRAL MULLIN IS SAYING IS
THERE NEEDS TO BE SOME WAY THAT
PEOPLE ARE MORE CONNECTED,
WHETHER IT'S HAVING GREATER
RELIANCE ON THE RESERVES SO
PEOPLE WHO DIDN'T EXPECT TO BE
IN COMBAT ARE CALLED, THE
SPECIFIC ANSWER IS NOT CLEAR BUT
THE GENERAL GOAL IS.
>> Warner: YOU SUGGEST A
NATIONAL COMMISSION TO LOOK AT
THE IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN
CONFLICTS AND WHY WE HAVE SUCH
TROUBLE DEALING WITH ININSURGENT
CONFLICTS.
WOULD ANY STUDY STOP ANY
PRESIDENT DETERMINED TO
REINGAUGE?
>> NO, OF COURSE.
THERE ARE LIMITS TO WHAT STUDIES
CAN DO, BUT THERE ARE BEEN TIMES
IN MODERN HISTORY WHEN THESE BIG
COMMISSIONS HAVE MADE A
DIFFERENCE.
THE 9/11 COMMISSION HAD SOME
EFFECT.
I THINK SOMEONE THAT WOULD
FORMALLY GET ATTENTION ON WHAT
HAS GONE RIGHT AND WRONG IN THIS
PAST DOZEN YEARS OF THE LONG
WARS, SO WE'LL HAVE SOME WAY TO
ASSESS, SHOULD WE DO THIS AGAIN?
THE INSTITUTIONAL PROCESS FOR
DECIDING AGAIN WHETHER WE'RE
GOING TO GO TO WAR ONE MORE TIME
NEEDS TO BE MORE ROBUST THAN IT
IS NOW.
>> Warner: JIM FALLOWS, THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU, MARGARET.
>> Woodruff: AS WE MENTIONED
EARLIER, THERE'S BEEN
PASSIONATE REACTION TO FALLOWS'
PIECE.
JOINING ME NOW TO DISCUSS IT, IS
FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO IRAQ
JAMES JEFFREY.
HE'S A FORMER ARMY INFANTRY
OFFICER AND IS NOW A VISITING
FELLOW AT THE WASHINGTON
INSTITUTE FOR NEAR EAST POLICY.
AND, FORMER MARINE INTELLIGENCE
OFFICER AND FORMER SPOKESMAN FOR
THE SENATE ARMED SERVICES
COMMITTEE JOHN ULLYOT.
HE'S NOW MANAGING DIRECTOR AT
THE HIGH LANTERN GROUP.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU, YOU I, JUDY.
>> Warner: IS JIM FALLOWS
RIGHT WHEN HE SAYS ESSENTIALLY
THIS HAS BEEN AN ERA OF MILITARY
DEFEAT IN THIS COUNTRY RATHER
THAN VICTORY SINCE 9/11?
>> IT HAS BEEN AN ERA OF LACK OF
SUCCESS IN CARRYING OUT OUR
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES IN IRAQ AND
IN CERTAINLY AFGHANISTAN.
AND GOING BACK VIETNAM AS WELL.
WHEN WE GET ENGAGED IN THESE
LONG-TERM CONFLICTS, WE HAVE NOT
DONE WELL AS A NATION.
THE MILITARY, AS JIM FALLOWS
POINTED OUT, THEY WIN THE
BATTLES, THAT'S WHAT THEY ARE
HIRED FOR, BUT THEY AND ALL OF
US TOGETHER UNDER THE LEADERSHIP
OF THE PRESIDENT HAVE NOT COME
UP WITH STRATEGIES THAT HAVE LED
TO THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OUR
OBJECTIVES.
>> Warner: IS THAT AND THE
BIGGEST POINT THAT THE COUNTRY
HAS LOST MORE THAN IT'S GAINED.
>> THE AMBASSADOR IS RIGHT.
IF YOU LOOK BATTLE BY BATTLE, WE
NEVER SUFFERED A SINGLE TACTICAL
DEFEAT.
WHILE JIM FALLOWS IS HIMSELF
RIGHT THAT THEY HAVE NOT BEEN
SUCCESSFUL, IT IS NOT BECAUSE OF
MILITARY SHORTCOMINGS.
WHAT IT HAS BEEN IS IT'S BEEN
THE POLICY-MAKERS HAVE COMMITTED
OUR MILITARY TO WARS AND
CONFLICTS SUCH AS IN IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN THAT ARE ESSENTIALLY
NOT SOLVABLE ON THE MILITARY
LEVEL.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT IS
HAPPENING HERE, AMBASSADOR
JEFFREY?
THE POINT HE MADE I THOUGHT VERY
POWERFULLY IS THAT SUCH A TINY
PERCENTAGE OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE ARE IN THE MILITARY, THAT
IT'S JUST A FRACTION OF 1%.
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE
DISCONNECTED FROM THESE
DECISIONS.
>> THAT'S TRUE TO SOME DEGREE.
BUT I MEAN ALL DECISIONS ARE
TAKEN BY THE PRESIDENT AND BY
CONGRESS, AND THAT IS BY A
DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM.
THE MILITARY IS SMALL BECAUSE
MILITARIES IN ALL ADVANCED
COUNTRIES ARE SMALL.
WE HAVE WELL OVER TWO MILLION
PEOPLE UNDER UNIFORM IN THE
RESERVES, NATIONAL GUARD AND
ACTIVE SERVICE, BUT THAT'S STILL
A TINY PERCENT OF THE VERY LARGE
COUNTRY WE ARE.
THERE IS NO REAL SOLUTION TO
THAT.
THE MILITARY, I DON'T WANT TO
LET THEM OFF THE HOOK.
THEY HAVE A VOICE IN DETERMINING
THESE STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES.
GENERAL POWELL GAVE US A WAY
FORWARD WITH THE POWELL
DOCTRINE.
GENERAL PETRAEUS IS A DIVISION
COMMANDER IN IRAQ IN '03 ASKED
THE RELEVANT QUESTION: TELL ME
HOW THIS IS ALL GOING TO END.
WE NEED MORE OF THAT.
WE NEED MORE PEOPLE TO SAY,
WITHOUT A STRATEGIC GOAL AND
WITHOUT THE RESOURCE, WE
SHOULDN'T BE WINNING THESE
BATTLES AT GREAT LOSS.
>> Woodruff: JOHN ULLYOT, IS
THAT WHAT HAPPENED?
>> THAT'S SOMEWHAT WHAT
HAPPENED.
I SAW, WE SAW IN THE SENATE THAT
THE SENATE WAS A LOT MORE LIKELY
TO VOTE TO COMMIT FORCES WHEN
THERE'S NOT A DIRECT IMPACT ON
THEMSELVESSED THE AMBASSADOR AND
I MAY DISAGREE ON THIS BECAUSE
HE CAN POINT TO VIETNAM, BUT IF
YOU JUST LOOK AT THE IRAQ WAR
AND TO A LESSER EXTENT
AFGHANISTAN, WE WERE TOO WILLING
TO COMMIT TROOPS BECAUSE WE
DIDN'T KNOW WHAT THE ACTUAL
COSTS WOULD HAVE BEEN AND WHAT
THE DOWNSIDES WOULD BE IF THE
MISSION DIDN'T GO THE WAY IT DID
WHEN WE FIRST SENT THEM IN, IN
2003.
>> Woodruff: SO WHO OR WHAT IS
RESPONSIBLE?
WE HEAR JIM FALLOWS AND JOHN
ULLYOT COMING BACK TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE AND SAYING THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE TO BE MORE
ENGAGED.
>> I THINK HE'S ABSOLUTELY RIGHT
ON THAT POINT.
I THINK YOU'RE SEEING 20 NEW
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WHO HAVE
SERVED IN THE MILITARY WHO ARE
YOUNGER GENERATION, IN MANY
CASES IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN
VETERANS.
BY THEM BEING IN THERE, THAT'S
MORE THAN WE'VE HAD IN RECENT
YEARS, AND THAT IS A REALLY GOOD
STEP FORWARD.
TO FALLOWS' POINT, WE NEED MORE
PEOPLE WITH MILITARY EXPERIENCE
WHO ARE WILLING TO GO INTO
CONGRESS AND PARTICIPATE IN
THESE DECISIONS ABOUT WHEN WE
USE FORCE.
>> Woodruff: AMBASSADOR
JEFFREY, IT'S STILL DISTURBING
THIS LARGER POINT HE'S MAKING
THAT SO MUCH BLOOD AND TREASURE
HAVE BEEN IN EFFECT SPENT IN
IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN AND THAT
ENTIRE REGION OVER THE LAST
DECADE PLUS, AND HE MAKES THE
POINT THAT THE AMERICAN IMAGE,
VALUES HAVE ALL TAKEN A BIG HIT
DESPITE THAT.
>> THEY CERTAINLY HAVE TAKEN A
HIT, JUDY, BUT AGAIN, THAT ISN'T
BECAUSE THE MILITARY DIDN'T TAKE
DOWN SADDAM IN A FEW WEEKS.
IT DID.
IT ISN'T BECAUSE THE MILITARY
DIDN'T DRIVE THE TALIBAN AND AL
QAEDA OUT OF AFGHANISTAN VERY,
VERY QUICKLY.
IT'S BECAUSE THEY WERE NOT ABLE
OF DOING A MISSION THAT IS
ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE, AS WE HAD
SEEN TWO GENERATIONS AGO IN
VIETNAM.
YOU CANNOT GO IN AND CLEAR OUT
AN ENTIRE COUNTRY WITH AN
INSURGENCY THAT IS SUPPORTED BY
MUCH OF POPULATION BY ANY OF
THE STANDARDS WE'RE WILLING TO
APPLY.
>> Woodruff: HOW DOES THE U.S.
PREVENT SOMETHING LIKE THAT FROM
HAPPENING AGAIN AND AGAIN AND
AGAIN.
>> DON'T GET INVOLVED IN ANY
MORE LARGE COUNTER SURGE SIS
WHERE THE FOOT SOLDIERS ON THE
GROUND ARE AMERICAN TROOPS.
WE'VE PLAYED THIS GAME THREE
TIMES.
WE'VE NOT DONE WELL.
STOP DOING IT.
>> AND I AGREE WITH THE
AMBASSADOR 100%.
THE KEY THING IS DO NOT SEE
GEOPOLITICAL PROBLEMS AS ALWAYS
HAVING A MILITARY SOLUTION.
WE'VE BEEN VERY FORTUNATE THAT
WE HAVE A MILITARY THAT IS THE
WORLD'S BEST HANDS DOWN, BUT
THERE ARE A LOT OF TIMES, FOR
EXAMPLE, WE CAN'T PROVIDE
STABILITY TO A COUNTRY THAT
DOESN'T POLITICALLY HAVE THE
WILL TO DO SO, LIKE IN IRAQ.
>> BUT SO OFTEN THE DECISION TO
GO TO WAR IS EQUATED WITH IS THE
U.S. PREPARE TO STAND UP FOR
WHAT IT BELIEVES NEW YORK AND IF
WE'RE NOT, THEN THE ARGUMENT IS
WELL, WE'RE WEAK, SO WE DON'T
HAVE ANY CHOICE.
>> CORRECT, BUT ONCE AGAIN, IT
HAS TO BE A HOLISTIC SOLUTION.
IF YOU SAY, LOOK, JUST BY
COMMITTING U.S. FORCES IN IRAQ
THAT THAT'S GOING TO BE A CLEAR
CARD TO VICTORY, WE KNOW THAT'S
NOT THE CASE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ELSE SHOULD
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE BE THINKING
ABOUT AS THEY THINK ABOUT THE
MILITARY TODAY.
>> IT'S VERY IMPORTANT TO
REALIZE THE MILITARY HAS GONE
THROUGH AN EXTRAORDINARILY
DIFFICULT PERIOD WITH MULTIPLE
DEPLOYMENTS, GREAT STRESS ON
FAMILIES.
THAT'S THE FIRST THING.
THE SECOND THING IS THEY'RE
READY TO GO OUT AND DO THIS
AGAIN TOMORROW IF THE COUNTRY
NEEDS THEM, AND THAT IS A
RESOURCE THAT NO OTHER COUNTRY
IN THE WESTERN WORLD HAS AND
IT'S A PRECIOUS RESOURCE AND WE
HAVE TO ENSURE THAT IT'S NOT
WASTED ON A CONFLICT THAT
THEY'RE NOT GIVEN THE RESOURCES
TO WIN.
>> Woodruff: WE THANK YOU
BOTH.
AMBASSADOR JIM JEFFREY AND JOHN
ULLYOT, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> THANK YOU, DY.JU
>> Ifill: IT TOOK ONLY MINUTES
AFTER THIS YEAR'S OSCAR
NOMINATIONS WERE ANNOUNCED THIS
MORNING FOR THE CRITICISM TO
BEGIN.
MUCH OF THE REACTION CENTERED ON
WHAT WAS MISSING, NAMELY
DIVERSITY AMONG NOMINEES FOR
ACTOR, ACTRESS, DIRECTING AND
SCREENWRITING.
FOR THE FIRST TIME SINCE 1995,
ALL OF THE ACTORS NOMINATED FOR
LEAD AND SUPPORTING ROLES ARE
WHITE.
ONE PROMINENT SNUB, THE CIVIL
RIGHTS FILM "SELMA," WHICH
SNAGGED A BEST PICTURE NOD, BUT
NOTHING FOR ITS DIRECTOR, ACTORS
OR WRITERS.
WHAT, IF ANYTHING, DOES ANY OF
THIS TELL US ABOUT THE ACADEMY,
OR ABOUT THE FILMS THEMSELVES?
FOR THAT, WE TURN TO TWO FILM
CRITICS.
MIKE SARGENT, OF PACIFICA RADIO,
AND ANN HORNADAY, OF "THE
WASHINGTON POST."
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
SO ANN HORNA DAY, WHAT DO
TODAY'S NOMINATIONS TELL US
ABOUT THE KINDS OF FILMS THAT
HOLLYWOOD IS MAKING AND THE
KINDS OF FILMS THAT HOLLYWOOD IS
AWARDING?
>> WELL, AT LEAST FOR TODAY IT
LOOKS LIKE IT'S KIND OF A BOY'S
SHOW.
EVEN WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE BEST
PICTURE NOMINEES AND
GRATIFYINGLY "SELMA" DID MAKE IT
INTO THE BEST PICTURE TO BE
NOMINATED FOR BEST PICTURE, BUT
SO MANY OF THOSE ARE JOURNEYS
UNDERTAKEN BY MEN.
THE GREAT MEN OF "THE THEORY OF
EVERYTHING" AND "THE IMITATION
GAME" OR THE YOUNG MAN OF
"BOYHOOD" OR IF ACTOR OF
"BIRDMAN."
SO IT IS STRIKING SORT OF
TABLEAUX OF MEN AND THEIR
STORIES BEING REPRESENTED IN
THAT GROUP.
>> Ifill: MIKE SARGENT, WHAT
STRUCK YOU MOST WHEN YOU FIRST
WATCHED AND SAW THESE
NOMINATIONS?
>> WELL, UNFORTUNATELY I WASN'T
VERY SURPRISED.
I MEAN, THESE NOMINATIONS I
BLEECH REFLECT HOLLYWOOD IN
GENERAL AND REFLECT WHAT IS
COMING OUT IN FILM IN GENERAL.
AND I AGREE WITH MY COCRITIC
THAT IT IS UNFORTUNATELY
SOMETHING OF A WHITE BOY'S CLUB.
MOST OF THE FILMS ARE WRITTEN,
PRODUCED AND DIRECTED BY WHITE
MEN, AND, YOU KNOW, YOU HAVE TO
ALSO LOOK AT HOW THE ACADEMY IS
SET UP AND WHO IT IS THAT
ACTUALLY GETS TO VOTE AND HOW
YOU ACTUALLY BECOME AN ACADEMY
MEMBER.
IRONICALLY IT'S SIMILAR TO THE
WAY IT'S DEPICTED IN "SELMA"
BEFORE THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT.
YOU HAVE TO BE NOMINATED BY
SOMEONE WHO IS ALREADY IN THE
ACADEMY, AND THEY HAVE TO VET
YOU AND YOU HAVE TO PASS THROUGH
THIS WHOLE SYSTEM, AND MEANWHILE
IF YOU GET NOMINATED, YOU'RE
OFFERED ENTRY INTO THE ACADEMY,
BUT IT'S CONSISTENTLY THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE NOMINATED, THE PEOPLE
WHO ARE VOTING ARE A BY'S CLUB,
AND AN ALL-WHITE MALE BOY'S
CLUB, THEN YOU KNOW WHAT, THIS
IS WHAT WE GET.
>> Ifill: ANN HORNADAY, LET ME
ASK YOU, THIS VERY SAME ACADEMY
VOTED FOR "12 YEARS A SLAVE" AND
"THE HELP" HAS BEEN WELL
RECEIVED, A COUPLE OTHER MOVIES
WITH RACIAL THEMES OVER THE
YEARS.
>> OH, SURE.
BUT THIS MIGHT BE... THOSE MIGHT
BE EXCEPTIONS THAT PROVE THE
RULE.
I DON'T TAKE ANYTHING AWAY FROM
"12 YEARS A SLAVE," WHICH WAS
MAGNIFICENT ACHIEVEMENT, BUT TO
MIKE'S POINT, THE DEMOGRAPHICS
ARE... FIRST OF ALL, WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT A RELATIVELY SMALL
GROUP OF PEOPLE.
>> SURE.
>> BETWEEN 5,000 AND 6,000
MEMBERS, 94%, ACCORDING TO A
STUDY DONE BY THE "LOS ANGELES
TIMES" TWO YEARS AGO, 94%
CAUCASIAN, 77% MALE, THE MEDIAN
AGE IS 62.
SO WE'RE LOOKING AT A
TEMPERATURE GRAPHIC SLICE OF
LIFE THAT ISN'T NECESSARILY
REPRESENTATIONAL OF THE CULTURE,
AND BY CONTRAST, LET'S LOOK AT
THE GOLDEN GLOBES THE OTHER
NIGHT.
WE USED TO SORT OF POO POO THE
GOLDEN GLOBES IN THE HOLLYWOOD
FOREIGN PRESS AS, I DON'T KNOW,
THE LIGHTWEIGHTS OR IN THE QUITE
OF OUR STATION, BUT THEY ENDED
UP BEING SO FORWARD LOOKING AND
MUCH MORE REPRESENTATIONAL IN
THEIR NOMINATIONS AND THEIR
WINS.
>> Ifill: MIKE SARGENT, A LOT
OF THE DEBATE ABOUT "SELMA" IN
PARTICULAR WAS ABOUT ITS
ACCURACY, ABOUT ITS HISTORICAL
FIDELITY.
DO YOU THINK THAT HURT IT?
>> WELL, I THINK IT DEFINITELY
HURT IT.
I ALSO FEEL IT IS KIND OF A LOAD
OF MALARKEY.
LET'S FACE IT, HISTORICAL FILMS
AND A NUMBER OF THE FILMS
NOMINATED ARE HISTORICAL FILMS
BASED ON REAL PEOPLE.
HISTORICAL FILMS IN GENERAL
ALWAYS HAVE A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF
ELEMENTS THAT ARE NOT
SPECIFICALLY HISTORICALLY
ACCURATE.
WHETHER DISAGREEING OR NOT
AGREEING, THAT CAMPAIGN
EFFECTIVELY ALLOWS THE PGA TO
NOT GET BEHIND HER, THAT'S THE
PRODUCER'S GUILD, THE DIRECTOR'S
GUILD TO NOT GET BEHIND HER.
AND ULTIMATELY, THE ACADEMY
CAN'T BACK A FILM THAT IS "HAS A
CONTROVERSY OVER INACCURACY,"
MEANWHILE, A FILM LIKE "ARGO"
WON FOR BEST SCREENPLAY AND BEST
PICTURE.
IT WAS HISTORICALLY INACCURATE,
BUT THE MAIN CHARACTER IS A
LATINO PLAYED BY BEN AFFLECK.
>> Ifill: ANN HORNADAY, HOW
MUCH OF THIS HAS TO DO WITH GOOD
OLD-FASHIONED CAMPAIGNING.
WE'VE ALL SEEN THE STEPPED-UP
ADVERTISING FOR ALL KINDS OF
MOVIES.
MAYBE SOMEBODY ELSE JUST DID A
BETTER JOB?
ANN, SORRY.
>> I'M SORRY, I'M SORRY.
>> Ifill: GO AHEAD.
>> THERE'S NO DOUBT YOU'RE
RIGHT, GWEN.
THE CAMPAIGNS HAVE REACHED
WASHINGTONIAN PROPORTIONS IN
TERMS OF THEIR BUDGETS AND THEIR
BARE-KNUCKLED SERIOUSNESS.
AND SO IT COULD BE THAT THE
CAMPAIGNING HURT SOME FILMS THIS
YEAR, BUT IT COULD HAVE BEEN AS
ARCANE AS HOW MANY SCREENERS THE
STUDIO SENT OUT TO THE GUILDS
WHILE THEY WERE VOTING ON THEIR
AWARD SO IT DIDN'T GET MAYBE THE
MOMENTUM IT COULD HAVE HAD IN
THE LAST FEW WEEKS.
SO IT MIGHT BE OVERDETERMINED,
AS AN ECONOMIST MIGHT SAY NEW
YORK TERMS OF THE REASONS WHY
SOME PEOPLE GOT IN AND SOME
PEOPLE DIDN'T.
>> MIKE SARGENT, YOU STARTED
THIS CONVERSATION BY SAYING YOU
WEREN'T THAT SURPRISED.
DOES THAT MEAN THAT YOU WERE
DISCURRENTED?
>> WELL, LET'S PUT IT THIS WAY,
I AM SOMEWHAT DISCOURAGED.
I GUESS TO ME THIS IS SORT OF
SYSTEMATIC AND
INSTITUTIONALIZED.
YOU KNOW, IT STRIKES ME, A VERY
IMPORTANT POINT ABOUT HOLLYWOOD
IS THAT, YOU KNOW, THERE'S THIS
MYTH THAT BLACK FILMS DON'T
TRAVEL, SO AS A RESULT NO MATTER
HOW MUCH MONEY YOUR FILM MAKES
HERE, AN I'M TALKING ABOUT NOT
NECESSARILY A DENZEL WASHINGTON
FILM, WHETHER YOU'RE KEVIN HART
OR WHATEVER, YOU LIVE AND DIE
HERE.
>> Ifill: IN THE U.S.
>> IN THE U.S. BECAUSE THOSE
FILMS ARE NOT DISTRIBUTED
INTERNATIONALLY, SO AS A RESULT
IN A WAY YOU'RE SORT OF
GHETTOIZED INTO JUST HAVING YOUR
FILMS PLAY HERE AND THAT MYTH
PERPETUATING ITSELF THAT, OH,
THE BLACK EXPERIENCE IS NOT OF
IN I INTEREST TO THE REST OF THE
WORLD.
>> Ifill: WELL, WE'LL BE ABLE
TO WATCH AND SEE WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT IN ALL OF THIS, NOT ONLY
OSCAR NIGHT BUT AFTER THAT.
ANN HORNADAY OF THE "WASHINGTON
POST" AND MIKE SARGENT OF
PACIFICA RADIO, THANK YOU BOTH
VERY MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING US.
>> Woodruff: THE LATEST TRADE
REPORTS THIS WEEK SHOWED ONCE
AGAIN THE EXTENT TO WHICH CHINA
IS A POWERHOUSE IN THE WORLD OF
INTERNATIONAL COMMERCE.
ITS EXPORTS CAME IN ABOVE
PROJECTIONS, EVEN AS THE GLOBAL
ECONOMY IS SHOWING NEW SIGNS OF
SLOWING.
BUT WHILE GROWTH BRINGS
IMPORTANT BENEFITS, IT'S ALSO
LEADING TO SOME PROFOUND CHANGES
IN DAY-TO-DAY LIFE THERE.
OUR ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT,
PAUL SOLMAN, TELLS US ABOUT AN
UNUSUAL PERFORMER WHO'S TAPPED
INTO A VEIN.
OF HIS REPORTING ON "MAKING
SENSE" OF FINANCIAL NEWS.
>>  INFLATION IS SUCH A
MYSTERY, EVERYTHING'S TOO
EXPENSIVE FOR ME.
( LAUGHTER )
>> Reporter: A COMEDY CLUB
INFLATION TEAR-JERKER FROM A
BOSTON FULBRIGHT SCHOLAR WITH A
UNIQUE TAKE ON CHINA'S ECONOMY.
JESSE APPELL, A STANDUP
SENSATION HERE IN, OF ALL
PLACES, BEIJING.
>> Reporter: AT A CHINESE
RESTAURANT BACK IN BOSTON,
APPELL, THOUGH HE'S NO
ECONOMIST, PRESENTED HIS
CREDENTIALS.
>> I'M PRETTY SURE THAT I'M THE
BEST MACRO-ECONOMIC,
CHINESE/ENGLISH, BILINGUAL
RAPPER IN THE WORLD.
>> Reporter: AND NOT JUST RAP
BUT MACRO-ECONOMIC COMEDY IN
GENERAL, WHICH HAS EARNED APPELL
BOTH A UNIQUE VIEW OF A CHINA IN
JARRING ECONOMIC TRANSITION, AND
AN UPPER MIDDLE CLASS INCOME
THERE, SOME $30,000 A YEAR.
APPELL'S INCOME COMES FROM
COMEDY GIGS, PROMPTED BY TV
APPEARANCES.
AND HOW DID HE MAKE IT ONTO
CHINESE TV?
BY PRODUCING INTERNET VIDEOS,
LIKE "LAOWAI STYLE," THAT HAVE
ATTRACTED MILLIONS OF CHINESE
VIEWERS TO THIS YOUNG AMERICAN'S
SOMETIMES BI-LINGUAL TAKE ON
SINO-ECONOMICS.
>> "MO MONEY, MO FAZHAN" IS A
PARODY OF "MO MONEY, MO
PROBLEMS."
AND "FAZHAN" MEANS DEVELOPMENT
IN CHINA, SO THIS IS "MO MONEY,
MO DEVELOPMENT."
>> Reporter: THE VIDEO'S
PUNCHLINE: THE MORE MONEY, THE
MORE DEVELOPMENT; THE MORE
DEVELOPMENT, THE MORE
AMBIVALENCE.
THAT IS, THE MORE GOOD THINGS TO
SHOP FOR, THE MORE BAD THINGS TO
ENDURE.
>> Reporter: AND THE BADS ARE
PALPABLE, SAYS APPELL.
>> THERE'S SO MUCH TRAFFIC, IT'S
TOO CONGESTED.
THERE'S POLLUTION IN THE AIR.
NOW THAT EVERYBODY HAS A COLLEGE
DEGREE, YOU KNOW, YOUCOLLR EGE
DEGREE IS WORTH A LOT LESS.
AND THERE'S REALLY CUT-THROAT
COMPETITION.
>> Reporter: MORE CUT-THROAT
COMPETITION, MORE "FAZHAN,"
APPELL EXCLAIMS.
MORE CONFUSION BETWEEN OLD AND
NEW, AND, UNLESS THE NEW WEALTH
IS EVENLY DISTRIBUTED, MORE
ECONOMIC INEQUALITY.
THOSE ABOVE EVER FURTHER AWAY
FROM THOSE BELOW.
>> NO SAFETY NET IN CHINA.
I MEAN, PEOPLE SAVE 40% OF THEIR
INCOME BECAUSE IF THEY GET SICK
AND GO TO THE DOCTORS THERE'S NO
CREDIT.
YOU HAVE TO PAY IN CASH, UP-
FRONT, WHILE YOU'RE IN THE
EMERGENCY ROOM OR ELSE YOU DON'T
GET MEDICAL TREATMENT.
>> Reporter: FINALLY, MORE MONEY
BROUGHT MORE INFLATION, PRICES
RISING FASTER THAN MOST CHINESE
COULD AFFORD, ESPECIALLY THE
PRICE OF FOOD, WHICH ROSE AT
ALMOST TEN PERCENT A YEAR FOR A
DECADE, INSPIRING APPELL'S
NEWEST MUSICAL OFFERING.
>> "WHERE HAVE THE ONE KUAI
CHUANR GONE?"
IS THE NAME OF THE PIECE.
>> Reporter: "THE ONE KUAI
CHUANR" IS THE?
>> "CHUANR" IS THE-- ONE "KUAI"
IS LIKE A DOLLAR IN CHINA, AND
"CHUANR" IS THE MEAT ON A STICK.
>> Reporter: AND THE POINT OF
THAT?
>> THIS ORIGINAL SONG IS "WHERE
HAS THE TIME GONE?"
AND IT'S A SUPER SAPPY SONG
ABOUT, YOU KNOW, MY KIDS HAVE
GROWN UP AND WHERE HAS THE TIME
GONE, AND NOW THE KIDS ARE GONE
AND I'M OLD.
I CHANGED IT TO "WHERE HAS THE
ONE KUAI CHUANR GONE?"
>> Reporter: SO, THIS IS THE
INFLATION THAT NATURALLY COMES
WITH DEVELOPMENT, BUT IT HAS A
DOWNSIDE TO IT.
>> YEAH, AND INFLATION THERE IS
A BIG DEAL BECAUSE PEOPLE
REMEMBER JUST A COUPLE YEARS AGO
BEING ABLE TO BUY, YOU KNOW, THE
"ONE KUAI CHUANR."
AND, YOU KNOW, IT'S, ESPECIALLY
FOR PEOPLE WHO MAKE LESS MONEY.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT OF THE LOSS OF
THIS CULTURE AND THIS MOMENT IN
THE DEVELOPMENT IN CHINA WHERE
WE HAD ENOUGH MEAT TO PUT ON
STICKS AND EVERYBODY COULD
AFFORD IT.
( LAUGHTER AND APPLAUSE )
>> Reporter: IN FACT, IT'S
REALLY THE INEQUALITY THAT'S SO
CONFUSING TO THE CHINESE,
COMBINED WITH AN ECONOMIC
SLOWDOWN AFTER YEARS OF SOARING
GROWTH AND EVER HIGHER
EXPECTATIONS.
INFLATION HAS ACTUALLY BEEN
GOING DOWN OF LATE.
>> Reporter: BUT HEY, A RAPPER
CAN EXPLAIN JUST SO MUCH.
WE DID HAVE ONE LAST QUESTION,
HOWEVER: WHY HAS MACRO-RAP
STRUCK A CHORD IN TODAY'S CHINA?
>> THE ECONOMY AND MONEY PLAYS A
HUGE ROLE IN EVERYDAY PEOPLE'S
LIVES.
EVERYBODY'S ALWAYS TALKING ABOUT
HOW AM I GOING TO MAKE MONEY?
HOW MUCH DID THAT SUBWAY COST TO
BUILD?
HOW MUCH DO I PAY TO GO ON THE
SUBWAY?
THESE ISSUES COME UP IN AMERICA,
BUT THEY'RE EVERYWHERE IN CHINA.
AND EVERYBODY IS A STREETWISE
ECONOMIST AND EVERYBODY IS A
STREETWISE FINANCE EXPERT AND IS
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO JUST
GET IT DONE.
>>  WE NEED A BETTER ECONOMIC
POLICY.
>> IT'S JUST SO IN THE PSYCHE OF
EVERYBODY THAT DOING RAP ABOUT
THE ECONOMY DOESN'T EVEN SEEM
WEIRD.
>> Reporter: AND AFTER SPENDING
ENOUGH TIME WITH JESSE APPELL,
IT DIDN'T EVEN SEEM WEIRD TO US.
THIS IS PAUL SOLMAN, REPORTING
FROM THE NEW HOME OF MACRO-
ECONOMIC CHINESE RAP COMEDY, THE
PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: IF YOU WERE
INTRIGUED BY SOME OF THOSE RAP
PARODIES PAUL JUST SAMPLED IN
HIS PIECE, YOU'RE IN LUCK IF YOU
GO TO OUR HOMEPAGE WHERE YOU CAN
WATCH FULL VIDEOS OF HIS WORK.
>> Ifill: FIRST THERE WERE HANDS
FREE DEVICES, THEN VOICE-
DIRECTED GADGETS, NOW THE AUTO
INDUSTRY IS TALKING ABOUT
REPLACING DRIVERS ALTOGETHER.
TECHNOLOGY IS CERTAINLY MOVING
IN THAT DIRECTION.
WE SENT SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
STEVE GOLDBLOOM TO LAS VEGAS TO
CHECK IT OUT.
>> Reporter: IF THIS CAR LOOKS
LIKE IT'S FROM THE FUTURE,
THAT'S BECAUSE IT IS.
IT'S THE MERCEDES LUXURY IN
MOTION.
WITH INWARD FACING SEATS AND
GESTURE RECOGNITION TECHNOLOGY,
IT WAS DRAWING A CROWD AT THE
CONSUMER ELECTRONIC SHOW THIS
MONTH IN LAS VEGAS.
SOME 20,000 TECH PRODUCTS WERE
LAUNCHED AT C.E.S. THIS YEAR
FROM RECREATIONAL DRONES TO
SMART KITCHEN APPLIANCES.
BUT ONE OF THE MOST BUZZED ABOUT
SHOWINGS WAS A PREVIEW OF THE
DRIVERLESS CAR.
>> THIS IS A PRETTY BIG DEAL FOR
US.
>> Reporter: JEN-HSUN HUANG IS
THE C.E.O. OF NVIDIA, A SILICON
VALLEY BASED TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
THAT UNVEILED THE TEGRA X1
SUPERCHIP, A BRAND NEW COMPUTING
PLATFORM FOR CARS.
>> ONE OF THE BIGGEST
REVOLUTIONS GOING ON RIGHT NOW
IS THE BUILDING OF AND THE
CREATING OF THE AUTONOMOUS
DRIVING CAR.
>> Reporter: JUST A FEW YEARS
AGO, NVIDIA WAS AT C.E.S.
SHOWING OFF THEIR HIGH-SPEED
PROCESSOR FOR VIDEO GAMES ON
X-BOX.
THAT EXPERTISE HAS NOW FOUND ITS
WAY INSIDE THE CAR.
>> WE'RE HERE TO ANNOUNCE A
SUPERCOMPUTING CHIP WE'LL BE
ABLE TO RECOGNIZE AMBULANCES AND
FIRE ENGINES AND PEDESTRIANS,
ALL KINDS OF CONDITIONS THAT YOU
WOULD CONFRONT WHILE YOU'RE
DRIVING.
>> Reporter: AND WHILE MOST CARS
LOSE VALUE THE DAY YOU DRIVE IT
OFF THE LOT, CONNECTED VEHICLES
ARE EXPECTED TO IMPROVE WITH
AGE.
>> IN THE FUTURE WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE ALL CARS BE CONNECTED AND
IT WILL BE CONNECTED TO THE
CLOUD.
YOU'LL GET SOFTWARE UPGRADES
OVER TIME AND AS A RESULT YOUR
CAR GETS BETTER AND BETTER OVER
TIME.
>> AUTOMOTIVE HAS ALWAYS BEEN
ABOUT THE LOOKS AND THE
HORSEPOWER OF THE CAR.
WE'RE MOVING MORE TOWARDS A
SOFTWARE DEFINED CAR.
>> Reporter: JOHN ABSMEIER RUNS
THE SILICON VALLEY LAB FOR
DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE, ONE OF THE
WORLD'S LARGEST AUTOMOTIVE PARTS
MANUFACTURERS.
ON THIS DENSELY TRAFFICKED DAY
AT C.E.S., HE'S TAKING US ON A
TOUR OF THE LAS VEGAS STRIP. A
DIVERLESS ONE.
>> THE OPERATOR OF THE VEHICLE
IS ACTUALLY NOT DRIVING HE'S
JUST SUPERVISING WHAT THE
VEHICLE IS DOING AND HE'S
KEEPING HIS HANDS AND HIS FEET
NEAR ALL OF THE CONTROLS JUST IN
CASE ANYTHING HAPPENS.
>> Reporter: OUR DRIVER, OR
SHOULD I SAY SUPERVISOR, IS
ULTIMATELY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
VEHICLE'S SAFETY.
BUT THE CAR ITSELF HAD TO PASS A
STANDARD DRIVING TEST, JUST LIKE
THE REST OF US.
>> WE ACTUALLY HAD A LAS VEGAS
D.M.V. ADMINISTRATOR GIVING US
AN EXAM TO MAKE SURE THE VEHICLE
PERFORMED SAFE AND AS GOOD OR
BETTER THAN A HUMAN.
THE SYSTEM IS TAKING INFORMATION
FROM ABOUT 20 DIFFERENT SENSORS
AND IT'S FUSING ALL THAT
INFORMATION TOGETHER, AND THEN
DETERMINES WHERE TO DRIVE THE
VEHICLE.
THAT'S SORT OF LIKE NAVIGATION.
WE PROGRAM AN ENDPOINT AND THE
CAR TRIES TO GET THERE.
>> Reporter: ABSMEIER SAYS WE
CAN EXPECT TO SEE URBAN
DRIVERLESS TECHNOLOGY LIKE THIS,
HIT THE MARKET IN THE NEXT TEN
YEARS.
BUT, THERE'S STILL A FEW
CHALLENGES.
ALTHOUGH CONNECTED CARS HAVE
FASTER PROCESSING POWER THAN
HUMANS.
ONE THING MISSING-- IS
JUDGEMENT.
>> YOU ALSO MIGHT LOOK OVER AND
SEE SOMEBODY TEXTING ON THEIR
PHONE AND GO "GET AWAY FROM
THAT," RIGHT?
THE CAR DOESN'T SEE THAT.
>> Reporter: STILL, DRIVERLESS
TECHNOLOGY BRINGS WITH IT SOME
UNIQUE ADVANCEMENTS IN SAFETY.
>> IF THE DRIVER EXPERIENCED
SOME SORT OF LIFE THREATENING
ISSUE LIKE A HEART ATTACK THE
CAR COULD SAFELY PULL TO THE
SIDE OF THE ROAD AND CALL AN
AMBULANCE OR ROUTE TO A
HOSPITAL.
>> Reporter: DRIVERLESS CARS ARE
STILL A WAYS OUT FROM BEING
CERTIFIED FOR EVERYDAY USE.
BUT IF C.E.S. IS TRULY A
PREDICTOR OF THINGS TO COME THAN
A STREET FULL OF AUTONOMOUS
DRIVING VEHICLES IS MUCH CLOSER
THAN YOU MAY EXPECT.
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR IN LAS
VEGAS, I'M STEVE GOLDBLOOM.
>> Woodruff: A QUICK POSTSCRIPT
TO STEVE'S REPORT, THESE CARS
ARE NOT ABOUT TO HIT THE MARKET
NEXT YEAR.
THE DELPHI CONCEPT WE SAW, FOR
EXAMPLE, IS NOT EXPECTED FOR A
DECADE.
ONLY DELPHI CAN GET A PERMIT TO
TEST IT ON THE ROAD, AND THE
PRICE IS NOT YET DETERMINED.
>> Ifill: MOST OF US SPEND A
CERTAIN AMOUNT OF TIME EACH DAY
TRYING TO NAVIGATE INTERESTING
AND IMPORTANT STORIES ON THE WEB
IT CAN BE OVERWHELMING, AND NO
ONE CAN GET TO IT ALL, SO WE ARE
DRAWN TO THE SAME STORIES--
WHAT'S TRENDING.
BUT WHAT ARE WE MISSING?
ANSWERING THAT QUESTION IS A
BIG PART OF THE MISSION OF THE
WEBSITE, OZY.
CARLOS WATSON IS THE C.E.O. AND
HE'LL BE JOINING US FROM TIME TO
TIME TO DISCUSS SOME OF THOSE
STORIES.
THE ONES THAT ARE NOT TRENDING.
I TALKED TO HIM YESTERDAY.
WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: WE'LL START IN
POLAND.
>> POLAND HAS THEIR OWN JEFF
BEZOS.
YOU DON'T NORMALLY THINK OF
POLAND WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT
GREAT ENTREPRENEURS, BUT HERE IS
A 37-YEAR-OLD GUY WHO SAYS THE
MORE PEOPLE ARE USING THE WEB,
THE MORE THEY WANT THINGS
DELIVERED, WHETHER CLOTHES OFF
OF EBAY OR BOOKS FROM AMAZON,
BUT DOOR TO DOOR IT'S TOO
EXPENSIVE.
SO HE'S CREATED THESE OLD-STYLE
LOCKERS WHERE HE'LL DELIVER THEM
TO THE LOCKER.
THEY'RE ALL AROUND TOWN.
>> Ifill: LIKE YOU FIND AT A
BUS STATION?
>> EXACTLY.
REMEMBER "THE FRENCH
CONNECTION"?
THAT'S BEFORE YOU TIME.
>> Ifill: YES, CERTAINLY
BEFORE MY TIME.
>> BUT EXACTLY LIKE THAT.
HE'S GOT 5,000 ACROSS THE
COUNTRY IN SOME OTHER PARTS OF
CENTRAL EUROPE, AS WELL.
PEOPLE PAY LESS THAN $2, WHICH
IS 25% OFF OF WHAT THEY PAY
OTHERWISE, AND THEY'RE ABLE TO
GET GOODS THEY COULDN'T GET.
>> Ifill: IS THIS SOMETHING
HE'S THINKING ABOUT BRINGING
HERE?
>> IT IS.
IT'S COMING OUR WAY IN TWO DAYS.
HE'S NOT ONLY COMING TO THE REST
OF EUROPE, INCLUDING THE U.K.,
HE'S NOW COMING TO CANADA.
HE SAYS THAT AS A PRELUDE TO
COMING TO THE UNITED STATES.
HE ALSO NOTED THAT NOW GOOGLE
AND AMAZON, SOME OF THE BIG BOYS
ARE STARTING TO COPY HIM AND
TESTING OUT VARIATIONS OF THAT
IN LONDON AND SAN FRANCISCO AND
ELSEWHERE.
>> Ifill: THOSE FREE-STANDING
STORES WE SEE THAT AM ACCIDENT
HAS OPENED THEM IS PART OF THAT
IDEA.
>> CORRECT, INCLUDING HERE IN
D.C., AND THE IDEA THERE WILL BE
MORE CHALLENGES.
BUT HE SAYS HE'S READY.
ONE INTERESTING THING HE POLANDS
CHANGE YEAR TO YEAR, NEW TAXES
COME UP, NEW REGULATION, AND SO
A POLISH MANAGER AN ENTREPRENEUR
HAS TO BE MUCH MORE READY FOR
COMPETITION THAN SOMEONE IN A
SETTLED PLACE LIKE THE U.S. OR
U.K.
HE SAYS HE'S READY FOR BEZOS AND
THE OTHERS.
>> Ifill: NOW STORIES ABOUT
ONE OF THE WORLD'S LARGEST
DEMOCRACY, INDONESIA, AND ITS
PRESIDENT HAS ONLY BEEN THERE
THREE MONTHS, BUT HE'S DOING AN
AMAZING THING IN REACHING OUT TO
THE POOR.
>> VERY MUCH SO.
SOME OF THE FURNITURE SALESMAN,
HE WAS BORN THE SAME YEAR AS
OBAMA AND PEOPLE CALL HIM
INDONESIA'S OBAMA.
HE SAID, I THINK THERE IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO HELP THE POOR.
FIRST HE CUT THE FUEL SUBSIDY,
AND PEOPLE SAID, OH, NO, WHY?
BUT THEN HE OFFERED UP SOME CASH
PAYMENTS TO THE POOR,
ESSENTIALLY $15 A MONTH OR SO.
DOESN'T SOUND LIKE A LOT, BUT IN
A NATION IN WHICH HALF THE
PEOPLE LIVE ON LESS THAN $2 A
DAY.
THAT'S A BIG DEAL.
HE THINKS THAT'S THE OPPORTUNITY
TO ALLOW PEOPLE TO GET EDUCATION
TO MOVE FORWARD.
>> Ifill: WHERE IS THIS MONEY
COMING FROM?
>> HE CUT THE FUEL SUBSIDY WHICH
SAVED A MEANINGFUL AMOUNT OF
MONEY.
USING SOME OF THAT MONEY.
HE'S SAYING IT'S MORE EFFICIENT.
YOU WOULD THINK THE MARKETS AND
INVESTORS WOULD LOOK ASKANCE AND
WORRY.
INSTEAD THE STOCK MARKET HAS
GONE UP AND PEOPLE HAVE REWARDED
IT.
SOME SAY IN PART BECAUSE OF THE
EXAMPLE OF ANOTHER EMERGING
ECONOMY, LULA.
REMEMBER LULA DE SILVA.
EVERYONE THOUGHT HE WOULD TRY
THESE PROGRAMS ON EDUCATION AND
INFRASTRUCTURE AND HEALTH CARE
THAT WERE GOING THE TRY TO HELP
THE POOR AND HURT THE ECONOMY,
BUT INSTEAD BRAZIL BOOMED.
SOME THINK THERE IS A SIMILAR
OPPORTUNITY HERE.
>> Ifill: THIS IS A CASE WHERE
THE DROPPING COST OF OIL HAS
HELPED HIM TO BE ABLE TO DO THIS
BECAUSE PEOPLE WOULD OTHERWISE
HAVE RESISTED THIS IDEA OF
CUTTING THE FUEL SUBSIDY.
>> VERY MUCH SOME NEIGHBORS WHO
ARE MAJOR OIL EXPORTERS AND RELY
UPON IT, WHETHER IT'S MALAYSIA
OR OTHERS, ARE GETTING HURT BY
THE FACT THAT OIL PRICES HAVE
GONE DOWN, INDONESIA, IN FACT,
IT'S HELPING THEM TO GET DONE
WHAT THEY NEED TO DO.
>> Ifill: IS THERE ANY
POLITICAL RESISTANCE?
>> SO FAR THINGS ARE GOING WELL.
THE PRESIDENT IS DOING SOMETHING
SOME SAY PRESIDENT OBAMA WOULD
BE WISE TO CONSIDER, HE'S VERY
ACTIVELY COURTING THE
OPPOSITION.
SO THE PRIOR PRESIDENT WAS OF A
DIFFERENT PARTY, WHO HAD BEEN AT
ODDS NOT WITH THE PRESIDENT AS
MUCH BUT ONE OF HIS COLLEAGUES,
THERE HAVE BEEN A LOT OF
DINNERS.
AND SO WHILE THE PRESIDENT
DOESN'T HAVE A TRUE MAJORITY, HE
IS TRYING TO WOO THE OPPOSITION.
>> Ifill: IT'S SO GREAT TO GO
TRENDING. HEADLINES AND FIND
CARLOS WATSON, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> A FEW HIDDENS GEMS.
GOOD TO BE HERE.
>> Ifill: CARLOS AND I
CONTINUED OUR CONVERSATION
ONLINE WHERE HE UNEARTHED
ANOTHER STORY ABOUT WRITERS FAR
OUTSIDE THE MAINSTREAM.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
OUR NO
THE DAY.
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE
THAT MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO YOU
TOO.
TONIGHT'S SHARE COMES FROM "THE
NEW YORK MES,TI" THEY'RE ASKING
THE PUBLIC TO HELP IDENTIFY THE
SUBJECTS OF A FAMOUS
PHOTOGRAPHER'S PICTURE.
GORDON PARKS CAPTURED THIS IMAGE
OF AN AFRICAN AMERICAN WOMAN IN
A MAID'S UNIFORM, HOLDING A
WHITE BABY, WITH A WELL-DRESSED
WHITE WOMAN SITTING BESIDE HER.
ALL WE KNOW FROM PARKS' NOTES IS
IT WAS TAKEN AT THE ATLANTA
AIRPORT IN THE SPRING OF 1956.
YOU CAN FIND THE PHOTO ON OUR
WEBSITE AND A LINK TO "THE NEW
YORK TIMES."
>> Ifill: IT WOULD BE GREAT TO
SEE.
AGAIN, THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS OF
THE DAY.
BELGIAN POLICE SAID THEY
DISRUPTED IMMINENT TERROR
ATTACKS WITH A SERIES OF RAIDS.
TWO GUNMEN WERE KILLED, BUT
THERE'S NO SIGN THEY HAD ANY
TIES TO THE VIOLENCE IN PARIS.
AND THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
ANNOUNCED THE LONG-STANDING
EMBARGO ON TRADE AND TRAVEL TO
CUBA WILL BEGIN TO EASE,
BEGINNING TOMORROW.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, A GROUP OF
RESEARCHERS AT M.I.T. WANTED TO
FIND A WAY TO ENLARGE
MICROSCOPIC BRAIN TISSUE TO
OBSERVE IT IN MORE DETAIL.
SO THEY LOOKED FOR MATERIALS
KNOWN FOR THEIR EXPANSION
PROPERTIES AND THEY FOUND IT IN
DIAPERS.
SEE HOW THEY'RE USING MATERIAL
FROM BA NAPBYPIES TO NAVIGATE
BRAIN CIRCUITS, ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
AND READ ABOUT HOW FACEBOOK, OR
RATHER OUR FACEBOOK FRIENDS ARE
MAKING OUR LIVES MORE STRESSFUL.
THAT'S IN A NEW STUDY ON SOCIAL
MEDIA.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE'LL HAVE A REPORT
FROM WYOMING'S COAL COUNTRY
WHERE THE E.P.A.'s CLEAN POWER
PLAN IS UNDER ATTACK.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH
POLITICAL ANALYSIS FOR THE WEEK
FROM MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.